Q1. Statistics is the branch of mathematics that involves the collection, analysis, interpretation, presentation, and organization of data.

Q2. The different types of statistics are descriptive statistics and inferential statistics. Descriptive statistics are used to summarize and describe the main features of a data set, while inferential statistics are used to make inferences and predictions about a larger population based on a sample of data. For example, descriptive statistics might be used to summarize the mean, median, and mode of a data set, while inferential statistics might be used to test a hypothesis about the relationship between two variables.

Q3. The different types of data are qualitative data and quantitative data. Qualitative data are categorical or nominal data that describe the characteristics or attributes of a population or sample, while quantitative data are numerical data that represent measurements or quantities. For example, qualitative data might be the color of a car or the type of fruit, while quantitative data might be the weight of an object or the height of a person.

Q4.
(i) Qualitative data
(ii) Qualitative data
(iii) Quantitative data
(iv) Quantitative data

Q5. Levels of measurement refer to the different ways in which variables can be measured or classified. There are four levels of measurement: nominal, ordinal, interval, and ratio. Nominal variables are categorical variables where the categories have no inherent order, such as gender or color. Ordinal variables are categorical variables where the categories have a natural order, such as rank or grade level. Interval variables are numerical variables where the difference between two values is meaningful, but there is no true zero point, such as temperature measured in Celsius or Fahrenheit. Ratio variables are numerical variables where the difference between two values is meaningful and there is a true zero point, such as weight or height.

Q6. Understanding the level of measurement is important when analyzing data because it affects the type of statistical analysis that can be performed on the data. For example, nominal data can only be analyzed using measures of frequency, such as counts or percentages, while interval data can be analyzed using measures of central tendency, such as the mean or median. An example is that when analyzing nominal data such as gender, it would not be appropriate to calculate the mean, whereas this would be a relevant measure for ratio data such as height.

Q7. Nominal data type is different from ordinal data type because nominal data has no inherent order, while ordinal data does have an inherent order. For example, gender is a nominal variable because there is no inherent order between male and female, while education level is an ordinal variable because there is a natural order between high school, college, and graduate school.

Q8. A box plot can be used to display data in terms of range.

Q9. Descriptive statistics are used to summarize and describe the main features of a data set, while inferential statistics are used to make inferences and predictions about a larger population based on a sample of data. An example of descriptive statistics would be calculating the mean, median, and mode of a data set, while an example of inferential statistics would be testing a hypothesis about the relationship between two variables using a t-test or ANOVA.

Q10. Some common measures of central tendency are the mean, median, and mode. The mean is the average value of a data set, the median is the middle value of a data set, and the mode is the value that appears most frequently in a data set. Measures of variability include the range, variance, and standard deviation. The range is the difference between the maximum and minimum values in a data set, the variance measures how much the data values are spread out from the mean, and the standard deviation is the square root of the variance and measures the amount of variability in